Financial Programming Project 2 M Parameswaran April 4, 2026 In this project, you are required to analyse the health of the finances of the State government assigned to you during the last five years. You need to compute/collect following indicators from the State government budget documents. 1. Revenue deficit as percent of GSDP. 2. Fiscal deficit as percent of GSDP. 3. Primary deficit as percent of GSDP. 4. Interest expenditure as percent of revenue expenditure. You will get the data from the budget documents of the respective State governments. Go to the website of the Finance Department of the concerned State and download the following documents. These documents usually provide the data required. • Budget in Brief. • Medium Term Fiscal Policy and Strategy Statement. The second document may not be available for those States that have not enacted FRBM Act, but first document provides the details. Wherever possi- ble take account figures, if account figures are not available, take Revised Estimates (RE), if RE figures are not available take Budget Estimates (BE). For 2026-27 you get only BE figures, for the year 2025-26 you get RE, and for all other years you get Account Figures. After collecting and tabulating these information, you need to interpret the results. How these measures are interrelated and what do they tell about the health of the State govern- ment finance over time? You also need to review the recent literature on 1

the finances of the State assigned to you while interpreting the results. One document that you can consider is 16th Finance Commission report. The report is available for download from its website. Also note that in your first project you have studied about the growth performance of the State, so also check the relationship between performance of the State’s economy and government finance. Table 1: List of students and States No Name State 1 Abdulla M. K. AP 2 Abhipsha Khuntia AS 3 Adarsh Kumar BR 4 Aditya Kumar Rajak GJ 5 Alphons Rose Jery HR 6 Anagha Roy HP 7 Apu Kundu KA 8 Ardra M. Sunoj KL 9 Aritra Mazumdar MP 10 Chandrakant Pisda MH 11 Chitra Ranjan Gogoi MN 12 Dhinesh M. ML 13 Ganesh Padhan OD 14 Gouri Gayatri Devaraj PB 15 Hasavath Santhosh Naik RJ 16 Jeffry Priyadharshan J. TN 17 Nausheen Qureshi UP 18 Navneet Kumar WB 19 Nilima Bhowmik SK 20 Raunak Maitra TR 21 Samadrita Haldar GA 22 S.M. Muzammil Afroz AR 23 Saptarshi Mondal UK 2